session management:
session is a set of interrelated requests and response pairs sent between the http client and http server over a period of time.

By default http is a stateless protocol. Which means that the http server cannot recognize or identify the http client even after a lot of request and response pairs are sent between the http client and http server. Also the http server cannot store the http client data and so the http server treats every new request sent by the same client as a completely new request which has no relation with previous requests.

also everytime the http server sends back the http response i.e. web page or html page back to the client, the session between the http client and http server is teminated.

To make http a stateful protocol, we must make the http server identify the http client.

there are 4 ways for it:
1. cookies:
Cookies are files which are generated by http server and which store the http client information and they are stored and are maintained by the http client i.e. browser. When the http client sends a http request to the http server or website which uses cookies. then the http server will generate some cookie files related to the information received from http client and will store the cookie files into the response sent back to the http client. The http client will receieve the response from http server and will retreive the cookies from the response and store them at client side machine. Everytime from then, when the http client sends a http request to the http server it will attach the cookies to the http request and the http server will identify the http client. The main use of cookies is they are very simple to generate and maintain.

The main disadvantage of cookies is that only textual information in string format can be transmitted using cookies. Also cookies are not secure and the data stored in the cookies can be easily read. The cookies can also be easily deleted from hard disk.

There are 2 types of cookies:
1. non persistent or per session cookies:
These cookies are alive only till the session exists between the http client or browser and http server and once the server is shutdown or browser window is closed the session between the browser and server will be shutdown and so the non persistent cookies will also be deleted from hard disk.

2. persistent cookies:
these cookies exist even after the session ends between the http client and http server. The cookies by default are non persistent cookies. To make the cookies persistent we can set their expiry time using the setMaxAge(int seconds) non static member method of javax.servlet.http.Cookie class and after the number of seconds passed as argument to the setMaxAge() is elapsed, the cookies will also be automatically destroyed.


Write a employee website using cookies. After creating the account and logging in, there must be an option or a hyperlink to go to the welcome page and the welcome page must display welcome message using the employee name and id which must be stored in the cookie format after employee logs in.

